+++
title = "My Goals for 2025"
date = 2025-01-01
+++

January 1st 2025. I love typing it. 2025-01-01. The first day of the year. 

After I shared my 2024-in-review, Famichiki user <a href="https://famichiki.jp/@slims">@slims</a>, shared his, 
listing not just highlights of his years but also listing goals.

I really liked that idea, so this year ,thanks @slims for the inspiration, I'm going to set my own goals as well.
I'll be splitting up my goals in 3 sections. Personal, Professional, and Social. I want to make sure my goals
are attainable so I don't get dissuaded from giving up if I end up behind schedule.

# Personal Goals

## Move Back to Japan
Without a doubt the largest goal is to move back to Japan by September 2025. Giving myself,
my wife, our cat, and newborn, ample of time to prepare.

## Read More
One book a month, with a total of 12 books for the year. Anything more than that
will be a win.

## Continue my Japanese Studies
Although I get by well enough reading and speaking casual Japanese, I want to at least make some inroads into reaching business
level Japanese. To achieve that, I want to study at least 5 hours a week.

## Get Back to Working Out
Health permitting, I want to work out at least 4 times a week. Whether it's cardio or weight training, it has to happen!

# Professional Goals

## Get one new customer in Japan
As you may know, I run a small software development shop/consultancy, and most of my customers are in Europe, MENA and SEA. With
me moving to Japan, I want to get at least one long-term customer by the end of the year.

# Social Goals

## The Famichiki Mastodon Meetup of 2025
In 2025 our lil' Mastodon server will have existed for 3 years. To celebrate, I want to schedule a meetu;.
I don't know what it'll look like, but this is definitely something I'm excited about organising. I can't do it by myself,
so there will be more announcements soon.

## Attend more events
Once I'm back in Japan I want to attend at lrast one tech event a month, and speak at at least one of them in 2025.

## Sharing my Django Knowledge
I've been developing Python applications with Django for more than 10 years. I think it's time for me to share my knowledge.
Working with many organizations, I see the same issues over and over, so I have good insights into what I should be talking about.
Back in the days, I was a big of an of making videos, so I want to do this in a YouTube format. 
Short videos, less than 10 minutes. Easy to digest. I want to produce two videos a month.


# The TL;DR

1. Move back to Japan by September
2. Read one book a month
3. 5 hours of Japanese lessons a week
4. Work out 4 times a week
5. Get one new customer in Japan
6. Organize a Mastodon meetup in November
7. Attend one tech event a month
8. Speak at one tech event in 2025
9. Produce one YouTube video every two weeks.
